README.md, before:

# ocrmypdf-web

ocrmypdf-web is a web-based front end for [OCRmyPDF](https://github.com/ocrmypdf/OCRmyPDF), a free and open-source tool that converts scanned documents to searchable PDFs.

This project is inspired by [sseemayer/OCRmyPDF-web](https://github.com/sseemayer/OCRmyPDF-web) with the following key differences:

* Flask-based web server (instead of Hug)
* Grossly blank web UI; the advantage being no JS required
  ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2837532/229243759-4b56d973-02b3-4b6b-aa91-34da6fa4499f.png)
* Uses `OCRmyPDF`'s Python API directly (instead of invoking the CLI `ocrmypdf` using a subprocess)

Otherwise, it's conceptually the same and I encourage you to pick what suits you.

## Requirements

* Docker (with `docker-compose`)

## Getting Started

To run ocrmypdf-web locally, follow these steps:

1.  Clone this repository to your local machine.
2.  Navigate to the root directory of the cloned repository.
3.  Build the Docker image: `docker-compose build`.
4.  Start the Docker container: `docker-compose up`.
5.  Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`.

## Usage

ocrmypdf-web provides a simple web interface for uploading PDF files and running OCRmyPDF on them. To use ocrmypdf-web:

1.  Navigate to `http://localhost:8080` in a web browser.
2.  Click the "Browse..." button and select a PDF file to upload.
3.  Optionally select OCR options.
4.  Click the "OCR PDF" button.
5.  Once the conversion is complete, the resulting PDF will be downloaded (or opened) by your browser.

## Troubleshooting

If something goes wrong, you'll generally be led to the `/ocrmypdf` path in your browser with some error message to help you understand what went wrong.

Go back to the index page (where the PDF upload and OCR buttons are). To reset the form on the page, click the "Reset" button.

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome!

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

feat: add ChatGPT note to README
- Adds a note to the README indicating that this project was assisted by ChatGPT, and links to the full interaction log in ChatGPT.md.
- The note also highlights the usefulness of ChatGPT in iterating and experimenting on small side projects like this one.

README.md, after:

# ocrmypdf-web

ocrmypdf-web is a web-based front end for [OCRmyPDF](https://github.com/ocrmypdf/OCRmyPDF), a free and open-source tool that converts scanned documents to searchable PDFs.

This project is inspired by [sseemayer/OCRmyPDF-web](https://github.com/sseemayer/OCRmyPDF-web) with the following key differences:

* Flask-based web server (instead of Hug)
* Grossly blank web UI; the advantage being no JS required
  ![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2837532/229243759-4b56d973-02b3-4b6b-aa91-34da6fa4499f.png)
* Uses `OCRmyPDF`'s Python API directly (instead of invoking the CLI `ocrmypdf` using a subprocess)

Otherwise, it's conceptually the same and I encourage you to pick what suits you.

This project is also assisted through ChatGPT (based on the GPT-3.5 model at the time). The full interaction log can be found in [ChatGPT.md](ChatGPT.md). Not everything was helpful but this makes experimenting and iterating on small side projects much more enjoyable than they already were.

## Requirements

* Docker (with `docker-compose`)

## Getting Started

To run ocrmypdf-web locally, follow these steps:

1.  Clone this repository to your local machine.
2.  Navigate to the root directory of the cloned repository.
3.  Build the Docker image: `docker-compose build`.
4.  Start the Docker container: `docker-compose up`.
5.  Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost:8080`.

## Usage

ocrmypdf-web provides a simple web interface for uploading PDF files and running OCRmyPDF on them. To use ocrmypdf-web:

1.  Navigate to `http://localhost:8080` in a web browser.
2.  Click the "Browse..." button and select a PDF file to upload.
3.  Optionally select OCR options.
4.  Click the "OCR PDF" button.
5.  Once the conversion is complete, the resulting PDF will be downloaded (or opened) by your browser.

## Troubleshooting

If something goes wrong, you'll generally be led to the `/ocrmypdf` path in your browser with some error message to help you understand what went wrong.

Go back to the index page (where the PDF upload and OCR buttons are). To reset the form on the page, click the "Reset" button.

## Contributing

Issues and pull requests are welcome!

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
